Filename: xxx-onion-nyms.txt
Title: .onion nym system
Author: Arturo Filastò, Jacob Appelbaum
Created: 17 December 2011
Status: Draft

TOC
1. Intro and Motivation
2. Definitions
3. Registration
  3.1 General implementation
  3.2 Tor2web implementation
4. Expiration
5. Synchronization

1. Intro and Motivation
  The main issue behind the wide scale adoption of .onion addressing is the fact that
  they are not human memorable. While zooko's triangle says that you can only have
  at most two of "memorable", "secure" and "global" it is possible to build on the
  current .onion addressing system a nym mechanism.
  We will define the registration system generally and also it's particual application
  to the tor2web network.

2. Definitions
  These are the definitions of the actors involved in the process.

  Beppe - The owner of the Tor Hidden Service
  User - A random user of Tor/tor2web
  v2cbb2l4lsnpio4q.onion - The .onion address that Beppe is interested in registering
  antani - The nym Beppe is interested in associating to v2cbb2l4lsnpio4q.onion
  t2w - A tor2web node


3. Registration
  This is the process through which Beppe is able to make a registration for his chosen
  nym.

  3.1 General implementation
  Beppe wishes to register "antani" to point to v2cbb2l4lsnpio4q.onion so he creates a
  a TCP service listening on his .onion will respond with the string "reg antani" when
  interrogated.
  The requester will make a lookup in his database to see if "antani" is already
  registered. If it is not registered the "antani" <-> v2cbb2l4lsnpio4q.onion mapping
  is created. A timestamp is added to the database.

  3.2 Tor2web implementation
  Beppe creates file called "onion.txt" containing the string "reg antani" and uploads
  it to the root of his web server. When User visits v2cbb2l4lsnpio4q.tor2web.org the
  t2w checks if his database contains a mapping with v2cbb2l4lsnpio4q.onion, if it does
  not it attempts (in background) to request for http://v2cbb2l4lsnpio4q.onion/onion.txt.
  If the file exists t2w reads it and extracts the "antani" string. A lookup is made in
  his database. If "antani" is not registered he created a mapping between "antani" and
  v2cbb2l4lsnpio4q.onion. A timestamp is added to the database.

4. Expiration
  A nym can expire if either the HS goes offline of if he explicitly requires to remove
  the assosiation to that particualr nym. This allows dynamic reallocation of nyms and
  avoids nym squatting.

  4.1 Time delay
  After 30 days since the last check another request is made to either the TCP service
  or for the "onion.txt" file. If the Hidden Service is offline or if the requested
  mapping has changed the mapping is removed or modified.
  If the nym is still valid the database timestamp entry is updated.

  4.2 Release
  The HS can specify the "release" string to delete the entry from the nym database.

5. Synchronization
  To keep the database of registered nyms up to date in all nodes a synchronization
  mechanism is required.
  TODO


